README.md, before:

# Twigg

Twigg collects statistics for a set of Git repositories. It assumes that all the
repositories are in one directory and up-to-date.

## Commands

### `twigg stats` (command-line tool)

Shows how many commits each person has made in a given timespan and in what
repositories.

Usage:

    twigg stats [--verbose|-v] <repos dir> <number of days>

### `twigg app` (web app)

The web app shows the same information as `twigg stats`. To run it, copy
`twiggrc.yml.example` to `~/.twiggrc` and set `repositories_directory` to the
directory that contains all the repositories you want to analyze.

Usage:

    twigg app # assumes `~/.twiggrc` at default location
    TWIGGRC=config.yml twigg app # custom location for configuration file

### `twigg gerrit`

This subcommand clones a set of projects from a Gerrit instance, or updates an
existing set of clones.

    twigg gerrit [--verbose|-v] clone
    twigg gerrit [--verbose|-v] update

### Options common to all commands

All Twigg commands can take a `--verbose` or `-v` flag to increase their
verbosity, or a `--debug` or `-d` flag to show debugging information in the
event of an error.

## Development

Use Bundler when manually running or testing `twigg` subcommands from a local
clone of the Twigg Git repo:

    bundle exec bin/twigg stats <repos dir> <number of days>
    bundle exec bin/twigg app
    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec bin/twigg app # custom config location

For the web app, you can use Shotgun to get auto-reloading behavior on every
request:

    bundle exec shotgun -o 0.0.0.0 config.ru # with default config at ~/.twiggrc
    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec shotgun -p 0.0.0.0 config.ru # with custom config

To interact with Twigg in a REPL:

    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec irb -r twigg

## Why "Twigg"

According to Merriam-Webster:

> twig (transitive verb)<br>
> <br>
> 1. notice, observe<br>
> 2. to understand the meaning of : comprehend

Originally, the gem was to be called "twig", but there is a pre-existing project
with that name, so we chose "twigg".

## Requirements

Twigg requires Ruby 2.0 or above.

Commit message:

Add `init` subcommand
This subcommand emits the sample YAML configuration file to standard
out, where it can be inspected or redirected to its final destination.

I considered adding bells and whistles, such as the ability to pass a
target filename (or alternatively a flag or special value like `-` to
make the subcommand emit to standard out) and a `-f`/`--force` switch
to overwrite existing files, but simplicity must win out here; there is
little sense in reimplementing shell features (`twigg init > ~/.twiggrc`
does the job well enough).

Change-Id: Ie7032daa6bf7fc5746f17a8c0c0cc1e180aa8f0c
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.causes.com/25264
Reviewed-by: Greg Hurrell <greg@causes.com>
Tested-by: Greg Hurrell <greg@causes.com>

README.md, after:

# Twigg

Twigg collects statistics for a set of Git repositories. It assumes that all the
repositories are in one directory and up-to-date.

## Commands

### `twigg stats` (command-line tool)

Shows how many commits each person has made in a given timespan and in what
repositories.

Usage:

    twigg stats [--verbose|-v] <repos dir> <number of days>

### `twigg app` (web app)

The web app shows the same information as `twigg stats`. To run it, copy
`twiggrc.yml.example` to `~/.twiggrc` and set `repositories_directory` to the
directory that contains all the repositories you want to analyze.

Usage:

    twigg app # assumes `~/.twiggrc` at default location
    TWIGGRC=config.yml twigg app # custom location for configuration file

### `twigg gerrit`

This subcommand clones a set of projects from a Gerrit instance, or updates an
existing set of clones.

    twigg gerrit [--verbose|-v] clone
    twigg gerrit [--verbose|-v] update

### `twigg init`

Emits a sample `.twiggrc` configuration file to standard out, which you can
redirect into a file; for example, to place the sample file at `~/.twiggrc`:

    twigg init > ~/.twiggrc

### Options common to all commands

All Twigg commands can take a `--verbose` or `-v` flag to increase their
verbosity, or a `--debug` or `-d` flag to show debugging information in the
event of an error.

## Development

Use Bundler when manually running or testing `twigg` subcommands from a local
clone of the Twigg Git repo:

    bundle exec bin/twigg stats <repos dir> <number of days>
    bundle exec bin/twigg app
    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec bin/twigg app # custom config location

For the web app, you can use Shotgun to get auto-reloading behavior on every
request:

    bundle exec shotgun -o 0.0.0.0 config.ru # with default config at ~/.twiggrc
    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec shotgun -p 0.0.0.0 config.ru # with custom config

To interact with Twigg in a REPL:

    TWIGGRC=custom bundle exec irb -r twigg

## Why "Twigg"

According to Merriam-Webster:

> twig (transitive verb)<br>
> <br>
> 1. notice, observe<br>
> 2. to understand the meaning of : comprehend

Originally, the gem was to be called "twig", but there is a pre-existing project
with that name, so we chose "twigg".

## Requirements

Twigg requires Ruby 2.0 or above.
